convinced they made this one out of the battleship
arizona all right
now uh in addition to the italians not being too
concerned about about the impact of of their
civilization on the environment are there any
other particular european countries which uh
seem to have a like attitude well when you get up
into the baltic
you find a situation which, in my opinion,
represents almost the end of the curve. That whole
industrial area along the Baltic, which includes
both Germany's Soviet Union, the Scandinavian
countries, Belgium, the Netherlands, they've
been dumping just about everything into the
rivers farther up that comes down and dumps into
either the Baltic or the North Sea. And if you look
at some of the rivers there as they enter the seas,
they defy the imagination. If we think we have
polluted rivers, we ain't seen nothing. And the
public is beginning to get concerned. There's a
situation in Sweden, for example, where the
fallout from sulfites
in the atmosphere has reduced the pH acidity of the
Swedish lake Many of the very productive fishing
lakes are now completely destroyed. And, of
course, they blame it on their neighbors to the
south, which is where it's coming from. But it's so
complicated with so many different countries
living so closely together as to who to blame what,
and there's not much point in one country trying to
clean up the river at its... if the country
upstream is going to continue to pollute it. So
it's a far more complicated situation than we have
here. A lot of laymen are concerned about it, but
they don't have the machinery or the platform from
which to work that we do in this country to get the
government to do something. Okay, I only have one
more question about the environment and your work
in environmentalism. And that is, is there any
hope for environmentalism in underdeveloped
countries at all? Yes, and it's for that reason
that we are involved right now in the planning of an
international workshop in Brazil next year to try
to bring to their attention, at their request
pretty much, The problems involved with planning
and pollution and biological productivity in
coastal environments and estuarine
environments. Many of the government officials
in a state like Bahia, the governor of which
incidentally is a graduate of the medical school
of Cornell and extremely knowledgeable and
extremely concerned about the collision course
that Bahia is on, in reference to tourism,
petrochemical industries, and fisheries. He
sees that they cannot develop all three without
considering the weaknesses and liabilities of
each one of them. And we want to join with them and
people from all over Latin America and hopefully
Europe to talk about the things that we have done,
the mistakes that we have made, we might do if we
were going to do it again and hopefully catch them
early enough on the slope of their curve that they
can do some of the things within reason. Now you're
not going to, I'm not going to expect them to do much
to retard the development of the petrochemical
complex down there which is a multi-billion
dollar program in the interest of a few fish. But I
think the fact that they are even concerned about
it is rewarding. And most of the younger staff
within the planning division, which is sort of
like our EPA, are educated in this country or
Europe. And they're knowledgeable. And they just
need some guidance and some examples of things to
help them develop their own program. Other
countries, no. But a lot of Latin American
countries are really concerned. that they're
going to wreck what they've got before they ever
really begin to enjoy it. Now I have a series of
questions which may or may not be true. These are
simply things I don't know. Did you ever study at
Scripps Institution of Oceanography? No. Did you
do work out there as a research associate? No. I
visited there once as a member of the Ocean
Sciences Board of the National Academy of
Sciences. That's all. Why has so much of your
larval development and growth research been done
on the barnacle?
Well, I wouldn't say it has been. I might have
agreed with that 10 years ago. But since then,
we've taken a lot of the techniques that we
developed for barnacles and expanded it in other
ways. And which ways have you expanded? Primarily
into the decapod crustaceans, the crabs and the
shrimps, but some into polychaetes and some other
crustaceans. Okay, now, when I went back and read
your articles, it seemed to me that the move to the
crab, the significant move to the crab, came in 65
and 66. Would you disagree with that? No, it was a
little earlier. Okay. About 60, actually. Okay,
well, the first time I begin to see a goodly number
of publications appear is the middle 60s. Yeah,
well, by that time, the numbers, and that tied in
with O&R London, just as a side here. I was invited
to go to O&R London, and the date that we could agree
upon was 65, and I looked at the things I had to get
finished before I could go, and I said, okay. And I
worked up a big data sheet of titles of
manuscripts, And I just settled down and wrote for
months. That's why there was a sudden rush. All
right, good. All of a sudden, I've got a sudden
burst of things coming out on blue crabs and so
forth, and I couldn't figure out where they came
from. That's why. They seem to come from no place,
haven't they? Okay. I wanted to get it all done
before I went to Illinois. I didn't, but I got a lot
of it done.
What has been some of your significant findings in
the field of Louisville development? If you just
had to cite several significant things you
discovered, what would you cite for yourself?
Okay, first, the development of techniques which
permit their culture in the laboratory under
controlled conditions.
Secondly, an understanding of the way in which the
environment
through one and two,
making available large numbers, thousands of
larval stages of known age and species for a
variety of other experimental purposes. And then
for the beginnings of an understanding of the
hormonal mechanisms which regulate development
in a fashion similar to the insects.
How well do we know the feeding habits of various
crustaceous lovers, by the way?
Well enough to permit us to culture them, but when
you get into the real nitty-gritty lurid details,
there's still quite a great deal that could be
learned if someone were sufficiently
interested. Do you know enough for culture
already? Oh, yeah. Have you thought of your
studies of larval development, have you done it
specifically to aid general knowledge, or have
you thought of it in terms of your work in coastal
management and aquaculture? Well, originally it
was to provide a better understanding of
development. I think all of us, when we are
younger,
And we're more concerned about the quest for
knowledge. And then as you get a little bit older,
you begin to realize that knowledge in itself,
while it's desirable, is far more desirable if it
has some use. And the sooner you can put it to good
use, to me, the more rewarding it is. So that the
fact that we are now able to use larvae as bioassay
indicators for extremely
I had 10 years ago, as an example.
I now have a series of what amount to sort of
standard questions on which I want opinions on.
100%
unguaranteed opinions, if you should like them.
First of all, what do you consider your major
accomplishment as a scientist? Well, I hope I
haven't made it yet.
I guess thus far, serving as director of this
institution during its expansion phase, because
in so doing I contributed to other people
developing research programs, and that's the
function of a director. All right, well that
anticipates my next four questions, so let me just
follow right with these. First of all, how do you
explain your tremendous flurry of expansion in
the 1960s for the lab here. Was it ONR and outside
source funds or what? Well, it was primarily
because Bookhouse saw a number of the things that
are developing now well before they developed and
began the necessary planning and, if you will,
education of university officials. to be
prepared for it, and also developing a sound
academic, educational, intellectual base on
which to do this expansion. For example, in 62 or
63, Bookie became very concerned because
biological oceanographers, especially those
from smaller institutions, found it almost
impossible to get ship time. I won't say why. And he
convinced the National Science Foundation that
they should fund the design and construction and
management of a cooperative oceanographic
vessel, which would give the biological
oceanographers from the small institutions 10
days of ship time completely free. Well, 10 years
later, well, in the meantime, At the same time, to
avoid bias and empire building, he insisted that
it be coordinated by a seven-man committee, only
one of whom could be from Duke, so that even though
on paper we own the vessel, we can't run it in the
selfish sense. Okay, ten years later, this
concept evolved into UNOLS. University National
Oceanographic Laboratory System for the running
of all federally sponsored and funded
oceanographic vessels in the United States.
Well, Buckey was 10 years ahead of his time on that
one and on a number of other things. He saw the fact
that this laboratory would become more actively
involved in a number of things and that we would
have a need for expanded facilities, we would have
a need for expanded staff, And it was about the time
that this was agreed upon by the university, the
National Science Foundation, in 67, that I came
along as the director, so I have served as the
director in the interim of this expansion. Now,
secondly, why were you chosen as director? Let me
warn you in advance, this question is loaded.
Having myself come through large universities
where I've gone back to teach, it's highly unusual
for a man with his degree from a university to even
return to the university, much less head the major
establishment of marine biology at the
university. How do you explain that? Well, I
thought about it, and you know, I never will really
know. The fight over inbreeding occurred
earlier. In 59, actually while I was away on a leave
of absence in Scotland, the Department of Zoology
was approached about appointing me as an
assistant professor, book out having made the
recommendation. And I am told, of course I wasn't
here, and maybe it's just as well, I'm told that
there was a real knock down, drag out fight within
the department over this question of inbreeding.
For reasons that I will never know, the university
decided to do it anyway. So that by the time the 67
appointment came around, that issue had already
been decided. And I assume that the university, in
looking at potential candidates for the job, saw
in me a person who was already settled in Beaufort
and therefore apparently compatible with a small
town. I had been the mayor of the town for two terms.
I had been involved in all sorts of public
endeavors like school bond referendum and that
sort of thing. My academic record, other than
teaching, for which I was not employed, was
acceptable in terms of publication, involvement
with national and international things. My
administrative capacity had only been viewed
through the management of research grants, of
which I had at one time four or five. And I assumed
that putting all those things together, they
decided that rather than betting on a new horse,
they would take a chance and bet on one that they
knew. But
that's all speculation, because nobody's ever
told me.
have you discovered as administrator or chief
administrator of the lab here, have you
discovered interpersonal relationships in the
academic world have been particularly difficult
or easy for you in direction of the lab?
You better state the last phrase of that. Okay. As
an administrator, have you found it difficult
to... give direction to the laboratory and also
continue to have interpersonal relationships
with your faculty. Oh, not yet for the most part.
But I think it's in part because I am an
administrator secondly. I still think of myself
as a scientist first and it's for that reason that I
continue to spend as much time as I can doing
research, publishing. And it's for this reason
that I continue to accept financial support for
research, because I feel I am obligated to do it if
I've been given money to do it. I know people who are
administrators first, and that's where you get in
trouble. OK, now that's the fourth question. An
interview I just had with Nirenberg, and I'm sure
he wouldn't object to me using his name, he
maintained that he had essentially given up
research And he saw his role in the future, not as a
researcher writing any more papers or doing this
kind of thing, but as continuing to give direction
to Scripps Institution of Oceanography, which he
thought would be his major contribution to the
scientific world. I take it from reading your
publication list, you don't see your role that
way. Is that a fair statement? It is a fair
statement. And I think you've got to keep several
things in mind. The facility that he administers
is considerably larger. Yes. and I can see why it
would be constantly threatening what little time
he might have had left for research. This
institution in my lifetime will never approach
the size of his, in part by coincidence and in part
because we don't want it to. We operate on the theme
that a university facility like this functions
best in some nebulous size range which we've not
really defined. But the relationship between
staff and students, students and students, is so
important here that we don't want it to be the size
of something that he's dealing with. So it's a
different ballgame entirely.
I am concerned about any person who gives
direction to science on the basis of information
which is either secondhand or obsolete. And I have
seen in some number of the U.S. government
agencies directors of scientific programs who
had their last real excursion with science in
1947. Their knowledge of today's frontiers are
primarily 1947 ideas. And the direction that you
get out of that sort of information is downhill. So
that I will only continue to serve as director of
this laboratory as long as provisions are made for
me to have some time for research. And if that day
does not, if the day comes when that is not
possible, then somebody else can be director.
I was going to ask you about the size of the
institution. You've already answered that. Now I
want to ask you about the students at the
institution. Do you try to take primarily
students from your own university? Or do you try to
solicit applicants from elsewhere in the state
and outside the state?
Well, when Doc Kearse developed this place in 38,
it was with Duke University in mind. And that soon
became apparent that this was not realistic.
because it began to attract students from other
institutions. So that I inherited a tradition
developed over almost 40 years of serving as a
national laboratory insofar as marine training
is concerned. And this has been expanded
because some number of people at Duke over the
years, have finished degrees with some
involvement here, have gone out to institutions
all over the United States, many of which did not
have marine programs. If a student at their own
institution comes to them for advice as to where to
go for a program in marine biology, oceanography,
they automatically send them here. they in turn go
out to other institutions, so the whole thing
builds up to a feedback mechanism. And that's
where we are now. The gentleman teaching the
marine invertebrate zoology course this summer
at Beaufort is Robert Barnes, author of most
likely the best-known text on invertebrate
zoology in the world. He's a Duke Ph.D. He and I were
roommates together as graduate students. I guess
it's the old boy syndrome.
sure that one of the reasons Bob came back is that he
enjoys teaching here. Some number of students
came to that course this summer because he's
teaching here. And they will provide further
feedback in 1983, 4, 5, and 6. We have expanded that
traditional role to the international realm. And
we're now in the third year of our so-called
international training program, which I
mentioned earlier. That will, in time, provide us
with feedback from all over the world. And I think
this is a very vital role that this laboratory can
play as a facility of a privately endowed
university. We are totally apart from any real
political influence. And I think we have a
responsibility that goes with that. Then you see
your direction of this institution as more and
more of a cosmopolitan. Very definitely.
In giving leadership of sorts, if I may use that
word, I'm not trying to imply that you gave total
direction to the lab, but in giving leadership of
sorts to the lab, were there any distinctive goals
you had in mind when you took over your position?
Yeah, to expand, well, remember that I inherited
the situation where we knew that
affiliated with the laboratory. This meant
expanding the opportunities for students,
expanding the facilities to accommodate those
students who would be coming, and developing a far
more interdisciplinary program than we had at
that time. And that has led in turn to the greater
involvement on the international realm, drawing
on my own connections from the days of ONR and
others. But we have had some number of objectives
which are pretty well taken care of now. And now
it's primarily a question of making certain that
in becoming somewhat larger, we do not lose the
quality which we like to think we have. Now that's
the next question. What sort of directions do you
foresee for your institution in the future?
Well, as a facility of a university, some of that is
already predetermined in the sense that we have as
a major role the education of what we call senior
and graduate level students. So that we must
constantly be aware of what the trends are to
provide the necessary coursework to prepare the
students for those trends. maintaining a
reasonable quality. And my own personal interest
leans toward a further involvement insofar as the
international community is concerned, but doing
the same thing. So all we're doing is increasing
the involvement, but not changing the program
itself.
Yeah.
The assumption usually is, as the program grows
larger and as the institution grows larger, that
you tend to look for more specialized students.
That is, people who are not oceanography
undergraduates or what have you, but people who
have a special science they can bring into the
community, like marine zoology and so forth. Has
this been your policy here? Well, the expansion
that we have just finished,
it became a separate inter-institutional
facility, or rather inter-departmental
facility of the university with resident staff
from six of potentially seven different
departments. So we have people here who are
affiliated with departments in biochemistry,
geology, botany, zoology, chemistry, and
physiology med school. So that here is a very broad
base from which to develop research programs,
training programs, student involvement at
either the state, national, or international
level. And we've already begun to develop that.
And I assume we will continue to. But we don't look
for the development of people to know more and more
about less and less in terms of one very narrow
program. As some labs do, especially some of the
European labs, if the professor has an interest in
the third setos hair on the fourth abdominal
appendage, then that's what they become known
for. Well, that's not our interest at all. We want
to have a broad base which will provide the proper
research facilities, experience, and training
for people who will go out and send their students
back here. And I think that you see your role in
oceanography, at least in the near future, as to
continue to administer the lab.
Well, insofar as Duke is concerned, yeah. I will
continue to peck away at my own research interests
relative to larval dispersal, larval
development, oceanic dispersal. and continue to
serve hopefully in a number of capacities insofar
as the U.S. is concerned, the National
Oceanographic Program, and continue to expand
the international aspects. And all of these
relate to oceanography, even though we're
situated in the backwater of both.